Athletics to academics: Marco
Notarainni tackles entrepreneurship
December 19, 2025

Marco Notarainni, starting linebacker for the Boise State Broncos, has a passion for athletics that
transcends his time on Blue Turf. In addition to his role as a football player, Notarainni is also a
successful entrepreneur, with a business setting out to help student-athletes across the country.
Notarainni can’t remember a time when he didn’t play football. His love for the game came from the
relationships he built — he still stays in contact with teammates he played with in Pop Warner [a
national youth football organization] and at Torrey Pines High School in San Diego. “Lifelong
relationships are super important to me,” Notarainni said. “I have carried that with me and know I
will continue to do so after Boise State.”
As a Top 10 Scholar, Notarainni maintained a 3.95 GPA while pursuing a degree in business
administration with an emphasis in entrepreneurship and project management. “Being able to
manage athletics alongside academics is difficult and stressful. It took a lot of plug and play and
testing things out so that they work,” Notarainni said. “You’re going to need a lot of help along the
way and reaching out to leaders, coaches and captains to learn how to improve as an athlete goes
hand in hand with how you get better as a student and as a professional.”
A self-described passionate, consistent and curious leader, Notarainni brings this same mindset to his
entrepreneurial pursuits.
After the NCAA introduced name, image and likeness regulations in 2021, Notarainni and his
brother, Thomas Notarainni — also a collegiate football player at the University of Colorado Boulder
— co-founded Wealth Intel, LLC. The company seeks to help student-athletes, given their rights to

control and profit from the commercial use of their name, image and personal brand.
Notarainni credits Boise State with providing a solid foundation for understanding the complexities
within this space.
“Boise State has done a fantastic job helping student-athletes navigate this landscape,” Notarainni
said. “Their commitment to excellence in this area has played a huge role in my journey.”
Notarainni graduated in spring 2025 and returned to the Blue Turf for the fall 2025 season to finish
his collegiate football career. During this time, he participated in the Venture College Incubator
program, where he focused on launching a mobile app to help student-athletes budget, do their
taxes and otherwise manage finances.
“In addition to being able to recognize and pursue an important opportunity, success as a founder
requires discipline, persistence, situational awareness and adaptability. Marco demonstrated all of
these,” said George Mulhern, former CEO of Cradlepoint and a Venture College instructor.
“The Incubator put a magnifying glass on our business model and gave us the ability to validate that
we were taking the right steps with our business,” Notarainni added. “It was helpful to build new
connections and have George and the other instructors impart their experience and wisdom in the
entrepreneur space. I’ve loved working with Venture College; the family atmosphere was really
special.”

After completing the incubator program, WealthIntel took its next major step by collaborating with

Boise State’s Athletic Department and Bronco Professional Resources Organization [or BroncoPRO,
a centralized NIL and revenue-sharing solution for Boise State’s student-athletes] to pilot the app
with 48 student-athletes from the football and men’s basketball teams. Together, they logged 42 NIL
deals that further validated the product. WealthIntel is now using the pilot’s results and athlete
feedback to determine what a long-term partnership with Boise State may look like — and scale to
other universities.
According to Bronco football head coach Spencer Danielson, Notarainni’s leadership will take him
wherever he wants to go.
“Marco is a guy who cares,” Danielson said. “Whether it’s assisting his teammates on the field or
helping others navigate the changing landscape of college athletics, he’s always there to be a leader.
We’re so proud of Marco. He consistently shows what it means to be a Bronco in all aspects of the
student-athlete experience.”

OFFICE OF COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

communications@boisestate.edu
(208) 426-1577
Alumni and Friends Center

