Q + A with Master of Environmental
Management student Tyler Lopez
December 23, 2025

Idaho’s vast public lands give students in Boise State’s Master of Environmental Management
program opportunities for a detailed look at the environmental challenges facing our world. Meet
Tyler Lopez, a current student in the program.

Tyler Lopez

What interested you in the Master of Environmental Management program, and at BoiseState
specifically?
I talked to several of the faculty members involved with the program and all of them were incredibly
supportive and created an atmosphere that I did not see at other institutions I was looking at. The
atmosphere was something I really valued at the time and still do to this day.
Are there any particular staff, faculty or other students who have influenced or mentored you
in the program?
Every professor I have had in the program has left some sort of positive imprint on me throughout
my time here, and has gone above and beyond just the classroom to help me grow as a person.
However, Jared Talley and Kelly Hopping are two faculty members that have really helped me grow

not only academically but also professionally and personally. Their support has been amazing and
they have become mentor figures that I believe I could always turn to for just about anything, even
after I finish my degree I know I can always turn to them for guidance or support. I also established
really amazing relationships with my peers, everyone is always very supportive of each other inside
and outside the classroom.
What kinds of projects have you gotten to work on in your classes in the program?
I have been able to do such a diverse amount of things in my classes and research as an MEM
student. Being on the research track of the MEM, I am writing my own thesis and experiencing the
scientific process hands-on. This has led to some amazing opportunities doing field work, such as
hiking around the Sawtooth Mountains to compare historical photos to what a site currently looks
like, observing sheep herders and analyzing historical documents. The classroom side of my
experience has been just as fruitful and exciting, I have gotten to create Quantum Geographic
Information System (QGIS) maps of fire history in Idaho, learn environmental policy, hear from a
plethora of amazing guest speakers, write a publish-worthy history paper, develop presentation and
hone my public speaking skills. In one of my classes, I got to spend a week camping in southern
Idaho with fellow peers and University of Idaho students while we learned various range skills such
as surveys, plant identification and other very practical range management skills.

Tyler Lopez

What is your favorite thing about the program?
My favorite thing about the program is the flexibility it provides. There are a wide range of class
options that really allow me to pick and choose not only what I am interested in, but to become wellversed in a wide range of subjects. I have been able to take history classes alongside statistics courses
while also taking policy classes. The flexibility is making me a more well-rounded person and
preparing me as a more thoughtful land manager once I finish the program.
What do you plan to do with your degree?
I plan on working for the state or federal government as a land manager after graduating. This title

can look like a number of different things, but the degree is providing several opportunities and has
opened many doors, so while I am pursuing government work there have been several opportunities
from the private sector that are just as alluring.

Learn more about Boise State’s Master of Environmental Management

OFFICE OF COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

communications@boisestate.edu
(208) 426-1577
Alumni and Friends Center

