Three honored with prestigious Silver
Medallion Awards at 2025 Winter
Commencement
December 20, 2025

Established in 1969 by President John Barnes, the Silver Medallion Award honors individuals whose
service, leadership or contributions to Boise State University have been sustained over time and have
significantly advanced the university’s mission.
The 2025 Silver Medallion Award recipients are Brandy Stemmler and Mike and Lori Mers.
Stemmler works as the Idaho and Alaska branch manager for loanDepot and had a prior career as a
critical care and cardiac nurse. She previously served on the Boise State University Foundation
Board, including as executive chair. She has also served on the Unbridled Campaign Committee and
the College of Health Sciences Friends of Nursing Advisory Board, where she served on the
executive committee. Stemmler is currently secretary of the Bronco Athletics Growth Solutions
Board.



2025 Silver Medallion Award
| Brandy Stemmler

Outside of Boise State, she has served on the boards of the Idaho Humane Society, Saint Alphonsus

Regional Medical Center, Saint Alphonsus Foundation, Idaho Shakespeare Festival, Women’s and
Children’s Alliance and the Famous Idaho Potato Bowl.
Stemmler received her award at the morning commencement ceremony. “I feel like it’s my duty as a
community leader — and even as a citizen — to give time and any other resource that I can, whether
it’s advocating for something special or even just introducing people,” she said.
Mike Mers ‘92 is the founder and CEO of Aspen Capital Management. He serves on the Boise State
University Foundation Board, including as chair of the Investment Committee. He previously served
on the Bronco Athletic Association Board and the College of Business and Economics Advisory
Council. Mike received the 2022 Distinguished Alumni Award and the 2013 COBE Outstanding
Alumnus Award from Boise State.
Lori Mers ‘90 is the co-founder of Aspen Capital Management. She has also served on the Bronco
Athletic Association Board.



2025 Silver Medallion Award
| Mike Mers '92 and Lori Mers
'90

The Merses met in the College of Business and Economics while earning their bachelor’s degrees in
marketing at Boise State. They received their awards at the afternoon ceremony.
“As alumni, I think our choice to be active and involved has been a very positive one. And hopefully,
we’re touching some lives along the way,” said Lori Mers. “When you find something that means a lot
to you, you just want to experience more of that, and you want to draw others in to experience it as
well.”
“Brandy, Mike and Lori embody the very best of service and philanthropy to Boise State,” said Argia

Beristain, Boise State University Foundation CEO. “Each brings a rare combination of vision,
integrity and heartfelt commitment to strengthening Boise State and imagining a future of evergreater excellence. Their leadership has guided us toward those goals, and we would not be where
we are today without each of them. We are deeply grateful to count them among the Foundation’s
leadership and the broader Boise State community.”

Past Silver Medallion Recipients

OFFICE OF COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

communications@boisestate.edu
(208) 426-1577
Alumni and Friends Center

